# Abstract

At a high level, Arches, or the massively parallel hardware simulator, is a tool designed for simulating GPU (graphical processing unit) hardware. Hardware simulation is advantageous because it turns a hardware problem into a software one. Creating new hardware is extremely difficult because it is slow and costly, especially when only making minor changes to an existing architecture.

By simulating hardware, changes of any type can be made and tested without wasting physical resources. For example, a novel MMU can be simulated by changing a few simple parameters rather than redesigning an entire chip, prototyping the hardware, and measuring the performance. However, for a hardware simulator to be useful, it must be relatively cycle accurate. With a cycle accurate hardware simulator, the simulation can give a reasonable estimate of performance which can then be compared to existing hardware designs. Currently, the Hardware Ray Tracing Group at the University of Utah has a cycle-accurate hardware simulator that they use to simulate GPU architectures. This simulator, SimTRaX, works but has some inherent flaws which the new simulator, Arches, hopes to resolve. 

Arches will improve upon SimTRaX by implementing “modules” which are tied together by the core simulator; this makes simulating new architectures much easier, as users only need to add new modules rather than modifying the simulator. Additionally, Arches will implement a novel technique for simulating hardware which should lead to ~10x the performance of SimTRaX while still remaining cycle-accurate. To reach this point, our group is working on developing (relatively) cycle-accurate simulations of the cache, memory, and core units (i.e. FPU, ALU, etc). Upon completion, it will also be open sourced to make it available for use by other research groups and universities. We hope to make this a viable solution for researchers and industry professionals who need a cycle-accurate hardware simulator. It is important to note that while Arches will be a powerful and capable tool, it is designed as a framework rather than a complete system. As our target audience is researchers and hardware designers, it makes sense that users will need to be able to write their own code and create their own modules rather than rely entirely upon the base modules we are creating. This modularity is inherent to the design of Arches and is one of the key differentiating factors between itself and it's predecessor, SimTRaX.

More information about SimTRaX can be found in [this paper](https://hwrt.cs.utah.edu/papers/SimTRaX_GLSVLSI18.pdf). 
